sex is a physiological need and women
who don't have sex with their husbands
really shouldn't be surprised when they
end up cheating
i guess my ultimate point is that you
know it's easy i think to feel
sad for someone who's cheated on but i
think often we should also
feel sad for the person who has cheated
these aren't like mental health issues
this isn't something that talking it out
is going to fix yeah i'm very concerned
about men suffering through this because
it is suffering we applaud women who
leave or even cheat on men who don't
satisfy them sexually but the reverse is
not true
we expect men to grin and bear little to
no sex for years and shame them as
deviants and selfish
if they give in why don't they leave
it's not so easy not having sex doesn't
mean there isn't still immense love
there
and sharing a home and kids and
grandkids if we aren't going to have sex
with our spouses maybe we should one
divorce or two
let them fulfill their needs elsewhere
does anyone really expect
the average woman to go oh yeah sure go
go ahead go have sex with someone else
sure no of course not and it may not
even be
you know maybe the person who doesn't
want sex is still like okay yeah we'll
still have sex but maybe it's not so
enjoyable
for the other partner because they know
that their partner is not into it they
want to have sex
with someone who's into it maybe again i
i don't think this is necessarily an
issue that
therapy is going to solve i think the
issue is pretty clear this person wants
sex and they're not getting sex
how are you going to fix that you know i
think there are ultimately two i guess
three options divorce
let your partner fulfill their needs
elsewhere or
the partner decides to just grin and
bear it
there's a difference between being in a
bad
open relationship and entering into an
open relationship
for bad reasons it's that second
category
i really want to talk about here the
first category is broad a relationship
can be a bad relationship
for all kinds of reasons like drug
addiction alcohol
gambling whatever you hate each other's
parents doesn't matter
right what i want to focus on here is
entering into an open relationship
or taking a closed relationship and
making it open
for the wrong reasons and i gotta say
right off the bat
in the 21st century some of our social
problems
some are exacerbated
because we all grew up watching tv now
that is not to say these problems just
wouldn't exist at all
in some you know ancient society that
didn't have television sets
they do they do i mean you can read the
anthropological literature and you can
go to papua new guinea
and live with the last groups of tribal
people who don't have tv sets and they
still cheat on their wives
you know i'm not making that claim one
of the things i noticed growing up
was that tv shows would have a regular
cast of characters
who appeared every week and then the
viewers were really encouraged to kind
of dehumanize
the occasional characters you know on
the sitcom
jerry seinfeld he'd have a new
girlfriend
every week and the girlfriend didn't
matter right
the girlfriend arrived and departed like
a prop
on beverly hills 90210 it was the
regular
cast of characters some of whom were
boyfriends and girlfriends amongst
themselves whatever relationships they
had
but then if any of them ever had a new
relationship coming in from the outside
that person just served one purpose in
the plot
they in no way had their own
relationships their own desires their
own
goals in life that that mattered they
didn't have their own ambitions that
would change the plot in any way they
would just serve a purpose
for the regular cast of characters when
i listened to somebody like
swayze somebody like a natural vegan if
you heard the start of this video
when i hear her talking about a closed
relationship becoming open
of the the couple who are the
protagonists on this tv show
opening up the relationship to allow in
other people
i think there's a real dehumanization of
those other people
and to me it just reflects that habit of
mind that we all cultivated
watching tv shows now there's also
a very deep ambivalence
about prostitution and she hints at it a
few times
a lot of this comes from i like reading
about sex work
um that's just my my quote of the year
yes
i like reading from sex workers
particularly when they talk about
you know having relations with married
men
and how often these married men talk
about how much they love their wives and
how
they don't want to do this but they're
not having their needs fulfilled and i i
think it would be silly to just assume
that all these men are lying and that
really they don't love their wives and
really they're just
being [ __ ] you know i just i don't
think that
makes sense and that's not how i want to
view a large
portion of this world if the point is
that a man wants to have sex
with someone other than his wife and he
wants this to be a completely one-sided
uh emotionally null and void
relationship he just wants to use
someone else for sex and then discard
them we're either talking about
prostitution
or some kind of very shallow
relationship that
resembles prostitution now let me ask
you
which is more disturbing to you whether
you're a man
or a woman listen to this whether you're
gay or straight
would it be more disturbing to you if
your partner
in a closed committed relationship of
many years said to you one day
hey you know what let's make this an
open relationship
so that they can go and just sleep with
prostitutes
and there's going to be no intellectual
component of those relationships there's
going to be no emotional component
they assure you they're going to just
have transactional
sex sex that is paid for of course some
people do develop
deep relationships with prostitutes it's
not one claim here but that this is what
they're promising is that they're going
to make it
for an open relationship exclusively for
the purposes of sex
of the shallowest possible
commercialized kind
is that more or less disturbing to you
than if they say to you that they want
an open relationship
for the purposes of actually having an
intellectually engaged
emotionally significant friendship with
somebody
that they also happen to have sex with
that this other person
is going to come over for lunch
sometimes so sometime and not have sex
you're just going to eat lunch together
and talk about
history and politics or business like
that this is actually someone
you'd want to know for the next 10 20
years life or
when you're old people that maybe when
you're in your 80s and maybe nobody's
having sex i mean maybe you've all kind
of dried up
sexually but this is going to continue
to be an emotional relationship or
or that that's what they want to pursue
like whether or not they
accomplish that that they want to have
those kinds of relationships
that kind of possibility it challenges
the beverly hills nano210 view of the
universe it challenges
the seinfeld view of the universe it
challenges our assumptions
that we and we alone comprise
the recurring cast of characters that
other people come into and exit our
lives
in this frankly disposable
easily replaceable manner it's not like
we don't have
a culture that encourages this idea that
there's one perfect person for you and
when you find that perfect person and
marry that perfect first
person you're never gonna look at anyone
else again right he won't look to anyone
else because he's just gonna want you
so maybe maybe that's why women are able
to
hold these two views simultaneously like
yeah when
men are super sexually driven but he
married me and i'm his one special
special person so it's fine
it's fine if we don't have sex because
he loves me so much right
yeah i definitely agree with swayze on
this and
i think it's probably unhealthy to think
that one person
can satisfy every single need
in your life and that's part of what
goes into this
belief that when you find your one
special person that like
you just need that one person that's all
that you need and
yeah i think that leads to a lot of
dissatisfaction that you're not
really willing to address i think one of
the differences between me
and 99 of people in this generation
is that i don't really believe in needs
that way
like i don't think a painter needs
to paint a painting i think there's
something
creative and arbitrary
you know it's like okay i'm gonna take
this canvas and make it into
something special for some reason like
there's something aspirational there
that doesn't relate to necessity in the
same way as
hunger and appetite or cold and clothing
or something
and you know i don't think in this sense
we
clothe ourselves with our lovers against
the cold of being alone
and i definitely don't think we feed
ourselves with our lovers against the
starvation of loneliness
i just can't see it that way i really
see my relationships with women
as being something creative and
something i can do without
and i i do have experience you know
living in celibacy and so on you know
um now i think and maybe i'm wrong
i think that makes me value
relationships
more like seeing them as something
creative and unnecessary
i understand i assume i imagine that
swayze as this kind of committed
utilitarian
would instead see my view as valuing
sexual relationships
less right and and
in a sense i think we're probably both
right like why am i
hostile toward the possibility of just
sleeping with a prostitute
you know and i just said this doesn't
mean i'm absolutely opposed to it i've
made other videos talking about
how difficult it is to be 100 opposed to
prostitution living in the real world as
we do
but why do i have a hostility towards it
it's i think it's because it's lacking
those other components that i
that i value and on the contrary if you
do
see this as a need in this way you know
like
if you if you regard this the same as
eating at a fast food restaurant by the
side of the highway
because you have to eat and that's the
only restaurant for the next
50 miles you know like real world
highway conditions
if that's how you view sex that's going
to lead to a very different evaluation
of prostitution
and i think of other other personal
relationships i guess my ultimate point
is that
you know it's easy i think to feel
sad for someone who's cheated on but i
think often we should also
feel sad for the person who has cheated
i'm starting at the end of this story
and i will just say that while many
stories of this kind on reddit that then
get
bandied about here on youtube are
fictional or they are fiction
masquerading
as autobiographical effect in this case
i believe this story to be true
and one of the reasons for that is this
guy protested
that he's divorcing his wife he hates
his wife he doesn't trust his wife
anymore kind of again and again and
again
and then at the end he crumbles he did a
final update
where he turned around and accepted his
wife back into his life and he got over
it and got up with the marriage
so i think if this had been kind of a
fake story it wouldn't have had that
overall character arc which is certainly
shall we say human all too human quote
i still think she is a great mother and
life foreigner for those reasons i will
try to work things out with her
i decided that the best course of action
would be to pursue an open marriage
agreement
so that way i don't have to have her
drudge through sex with me
that she likely doesn't enjoy and if she
wants someone she can share her wild sex
with she can do that as well
and i can find someone who fulfills me
sex as well
do you see the problem i'm getting at
here
do you see how he's thinking about
implicitly
these other people and what it'll mean
to them so him and his wife
i mean obviously you don't have the
whole story yet
they're thinking about their problems in
this relationship their mutual
dissatisfaction
distrust what happened and then they're
gonna solve that problem
by supposedly having these transactional
relations with other people and these
other people what do they want
i mean if they're not prostitutes they
don't also want to have a home
a family children they don't want to
have the intellectual and emotional
aspects of relationship let alone the
economic
aspects or you know family building
aspects oh so these people are just
going to come to your life and solve
your problem and you're not going to
solve
any of their problems and now look even
if this plan works
what if works too well what if you get a
girlfriend
and your wife gets a boyfriend and
because those relationships work better
sexually as you're suggesting
they start to work better emotionally
intellectually also
this to me is an example of starting an
open relationship
for all the wrong reasons i do not have
to go on and on about it but i do
think that many of us were trained in
our way of thinking by
many years of watching television and it
was on television that we first learned
about how
romance and marriages work we probably
learned more from sitcoms
and romantic movies than our parents
ever taught us
or ever could so as you will see this
story is just as much about
trust and self-esteem as it is about
any of the other components of sex and
romantic relationships
quote i met my wife seven years ago she
was extremely picky when it came to sex
she told me she only had been with one
other man before
she would never perform oral sex she
would only do certain positions and
found almost
every sex act degrading i was frustrated
by this
but i really liked her and hoped that
over the years she would open up
sexually
over the years it never got any better
but i learned to get over it
well i ended up finding an old video
from her college days of her engaging in
group sex
with six other people five guys and one
girl
in the video she has anal sex oral sex
gets double-teamed and yells multiple
times that
she is a filthy wh word shall we say for
the
21st century all of it she was
enthusiastic about
i ended up feeling really sad i can
understand there are certain things
people don't want to do
but it was the fact that she didn't want
to do them
with him with her husband
but she was willing to do it with these
other guys
so here we get his summary of his
confrontation with his wife
she continued to deny that anything of
the kind happened and evade his
suggestions that she had some history
doing something like porn
up until the moment when he confronts
her with the fact that he has
seen the video and he has the video in
his possession
different people would respond to this
crisis in different ways but you can
see here that his problem is on the one
hand the loss of trust within the
relationship
and then the loss of self-esteem he
feels because his sense is that she was
more attracted to these men than she was
to him
that in a sense she had more of a
gratifying sexual relationship with
these
complete strangers in college when he
looks at this videotape and then he
looks at the reality
of what his sex life has been over these
many years it is one thing to lie about
sleeping with other guys
it's not that you didn't like doing
those things you didn't like doing them
with me she replies i can do that stuff
with you
i am attracted to you you know that he
says
i don't want you to do it because you
feel like you have to
i want someone that actually desires me
close quote
so you see what a terrible dead end the
relationship has come to
before he thought the problem was that
she didn't like
sex now he feels the problem is she
doesn't like him
she doesn't have sex with him also she
told him that she'd only ever had sex
with one man other than him
which is a very serious lie and
something he'd born with him and it's
something that justified
her lack of sexual interest or lack of
sexual ability in the relationship up to
this point
so the sense of dishonesty and betrayal
is
so at this point he's 100 set
on divorce he thinks the relationship
can't possibly persist
but as you're going to see in a moment
he comes up with this
brilliant solution that they can have an
open relationship
as if having sex with other people is
going to solve the problem that
you're not having sex with your wife
those are real
really it's just you know more problems
more people more problems you might say
all right quote he ended up leaving his
wife
she kept trying to stop him she kept on
begging him to stay
uh promising that he could do anything
he wanted to her
it was truly pathetic and he lost all
respect for his wife
the way that she was trying to
manipulate him
with sex so again for him part of the
problem is
he doesn't want her to grudgingly
or in a dutiful way do these things with
them given that they've been together
for seven years
and she never wanted to do these things
or found them repulsive or something or
just generally was terrible in bed
it can't possibly be that now that she's
shamed and humiliated but the revelation
of her
real past from high school and college
which as you can imagine was a lot more
than just these particular
six or seven guys in the video you know
you gotta warm up to that that kind of
thing i mean shovels had this
impressive career which is starting to
come out as he's interrogating her
and snooping around um
[Music]
i don't know yeah i mean this is this is
the case
for a sexual psychologist i i don't know
like you know if
if maybe she saw herself as this person
in
in college like okay i'm going to use
these years in my life to be
a filthy wh word and then yeah i'm going
to marry somebody
and be seen as somebody respectful and
prudish
almost uh this this is a problem that
was her goal or what or
or if maybe she yeah she switched
to a mothering role and they have a kid
together where she and she just turned
off that
that side of her life but look i'd also
say she chose this man
and this is how she relates to this man
and i think he is partly correct
you know i'm not i'm not saying the
problem is him it's not as simple as
that but the problem is their
relationship
the problem is who he is for her and
seven years is sure as hell long enough
to know yeah right
anyway yeah but he feels this is her
manipulating him it doesn't matter how
much she
promises that she can now be as filthy
or
if she doesn't want to for some if she
wasn't turned on by if she wasn't
sincerely enthusiastic
she wasn't drawn to him or drawn to this
kind of thing he doesn't want her to
honesty i think that's a big part of sex
and that's a big part of
attraction to somebody right well in
yeah i mean it's all yeah i know i know
how much how much honesty do you need
for a one-night stand versus a seven
year marriage
i know but yeah yeah the fundamental
thing is that he doesn't trust her
anymore and
nothing she would say is going to when
that honesty is gone when that trust is
gone what
what kind of relationship can you really
have but there's the further paradox of
how could you solve that problem by
sleeping with prostitutes
and that's what we're talking about here
it's either prostitutes or relationships
that are so shallow and limited
transactional that they're equivalent to
process he's not saying he's going to
have
another woman who's like the mother of
his children or is really meaningful
involved with his life
intellectually emotionally you know the
agility one or two ways i mean i think
you're going to continue but
you know it could be that she admits
everything she's honest about every
partner
he is already honest with her so that
they're on the same
page and then they can start you know
moving forward like now that this is
for whatever reason she was hiding it
for so many years but
he would still he would still have
resentment because he's been committed
to this relationship he's been honest
for seven years of terrible sex yeah
right yeah
and and probably it's part of why you've
been early in his life right like
thinking right this is going to be the
rest of my life i'm with this person
that's
bad in bed or attracted to me and it
doesn't make me feel
that's probably part of why she chose
him he was that kind of dutiful
stay at home and raise a kid kind of guy
yeah you know homemaking
kind of she was he was the guy she
settled down with but she didn't think
about it from his perspective she didn't
think of what kind of deal he was
getting
yeah so yeah it's it's profoundly
selfish it's perfect and
i don't i don't even agree with his
assessment that she's now trying to be
manipulative
towards him but the point is what she's
offering
can't solve the problem um you can't
buy back trust with oral sex
or anal sex or even three ways with
prostitutes it's never
gonna you know that's the wrong solution
for this problem that you've created all
right so maybe this is about
trust and maybe this is about his loss
of self-esteem
but in either case the solution is not
going to be sex
the solution is not going to be sex to
other people the solution is not going
to be opening up
and having an open relationship it's not
going to be having sex with
prostitutes which i'm saying implicitly
is really what he's assuming because
he's not talking about having meaningful
relationships other people equal to his
relationship with his wife
he says he really believes that she just
isn't attracted to him
the way she was to those other guys
that's why she felt liberated with them
that's why she felt fine
being their [ __ ] but won't even give
her husband a [ __ ]
here's the crucial part of the story
where he confronts
his wife with the option of having an
open relationship
the first paragraph here won't come as
any surprise to you he's saying no
matter what sex acts she performs for
him now
he's always going to assume that she's
being motivated by guilt
she didn't want to do these things for
seven years the video showed that she
actually
had like doing those things in the past
or perhaps all along
so now she can't just change or if she
does just change
he's going to feel that this is phony
that this artifice she's just doing it
out of compulsion
she says back that she still does want
to do them they can work it out
she asks for a chance to prove it to him
he then replies
that that can never work that instead he
wants to have an open relationship
and open marriage quote you can sleep
with other people
i can sleep with other people we can set
ground rules
but i don't want me or you to have to be
sexually repressed anymore
close quote the wife then argues back
that she doesn't want to sleep with
anyone other than him
and she doesn't want him to sleep with
other women for her
this just can't possibly work note the
role
of the male ego here in the first
paragraph note that he's again
talking about his own insecurity
validation
need for self-esteem look guys if you
want to get self-esteem
this ain't the way to do it sleeping
with prostitutes is not the way to do it
cheating on your wife is not the way to
do it
this is just not the way to build up a
meaningful sense
of self-confidence or self-esteem from
my perspective
it's not that sex is wrong it's that
looking for sex to have this
alchemical effect in your life is wrong
wrong wrong but he says i would like to
know your reasoning but even if you tell
me the truth i'll think you are lying
there's the lack of trust issue which is
totally fundamental totally a reason to
get divorced
if you get to the point where no matter
what somebody tells you they you think
they're lying
get divorced that's a totally relevant
you know totally sufficient reason to
get the worst right there
but he says he wants that validation for
his ego he hasn't gotten that from her
so he's going to get it from other
people and she replies quote
i am not going to go through with this
this is going to ruin our marriage
i don't want you to sleep with anyone
why can't we try working on our marriage
close quote
isn't it interesting that she may really
have more experience with this than he
does
right i mean given what we know about
her background she may have been in
some open relationship she may have seen
the way multiple partners
you know tears tears relationship apart
you know
but as you can see with what remains of
this quotation he puts this to her as an
ultimatum
either she accepts that they're now
going to have an open relationship he's
going to have sex with their women
or they're going to get a divorce
well i now see why you included this
story with the eclipse from
swayze because i didn't know the story
before you started recording i know
now get a picture about it because yeah
he's
having the same kind of expectation that
opening his relationship will help save
the marriage
which is what swayze is talking about in
her in her video that
when you are not having your sexual
desires and
uh expectations met in a relationship
that if you open it up that somehow
that'll save the
marriage and it's it's seeing sex as
transactional which i think is
rather than seeing a sexual relationship
as
two people having a relationship right
in addition to
that it's first and foremost a
relationship or you can even say a
friendship
right and then there's also sex yeah so
let's let's keep it all the way real
here
it's possible i would have a car
accident
and be confined to a wheelchair and
completely lose control
of the lower half of my body and like
sex just disappears from my life
totally you know it's unlikely but it's
it's
possible you know i think you and i
could still have a relationship
that lasts until the day i die i think
we could
still be together right and i mean i
think that's because we've worked very
hard over the last four years to build
up a meaningful relationship
that's meaningful in a whole lot of ways
other
than sex right now then you got
pragmatic questions about open
relationships and
and what have you you know but if you're
in that position
you have to think about those other
people
as whole entire people with their own
whole entire lives
yeah it can't you be like oh well i'm in
a wheelchair so you're gonna go
sleep with other dudes like and and
that's it that those other dudes are
just
sexual pawns in a chess game that only
really has two players so
one part of human evil is people using
the wrong solution to a problem and then
trying to force
the parts to fit a lot of human evil
comes out of
short-term thinking i've said that for
years you're thinking very short-term in
a very short-term
self-serving way about what's really a
long-term
profound problem right and then i think
yet more human evil comes out of a lack
of imagination
you know where you have to challenge
yourself to really
imagine how the other people in this
relationship
feel i i you know how is this guy gonna
feel like oh yeah well
she's married to some genius in a
wheelchair
that's pretty [ __ ] up for him too
right i mean yeah what what
is this situation that's in the totality
of its circumstances
uh how are you going to live with it how
are you going to live with yourself so i
closed the video by saying
you know ultimately you don't choose to
be happy
you don't choose to be sad you get to
choose
what kind of person you want to be i
mean ultimately like we live a life
where
the ethical decisions we make are the
only decisions
we can make you might you know you might
think
sleeping with a prostitute make you
happy you might think getting a new
girlfriend or new boyfriend a new
husband or new wife
is going to make you happy you don't
know that the outcomes are very
hard to know what you can know is what
set of rules
you're going to live by how you're going
to become a better person or a worse
person how you're going to commit to
one or another set of rules so that you
can be the person that you want to be